### 2:3.Y5.1 Scope

This transaction is used to present the images referenced in multimedia report to someone, such as a radiologist or a clinicians, in such a way that the user can interact with.

### 2:3.Y5.2 Actors Roles

The roles in this transaction are defined in the following table and may be palyed by the actors shown here:

**Table: Actor Roles**

**Introduce Display role**

| Role      | Description                                   | Actor(s)          |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| Display | Presents images to a user, such as a radiologist    | Report Reader |
{: .grid}

Transaction text specifies behavior for each role. The behavior of specific actors may also be specified when it goes beyond that of the general role.

### 2:3.Y5.3 Referenced Standards

**DICOM**

### 2:3.Y5.4 Messages

<div>
{%include RAD-Y5-seq.svg%}
</div>
<br clear="all">

**Figure 2:3.Y5.4-1: Interaction Diagram**

#### 2:3.Y5.4.1 Display Images Message
The Display presents the images referenced in a multimedia report to the user.

##### 2:3.Y5.4.1.1 Trigger Events

The User navigates through the multimedia content and triggers the Display to fetch the selected referenced images as specified in the multimedia report.

The Display received the requested images.

##### 2:3.Y5.4.1.2 Message Semantics

This transaction does not depend on how the images referenced by the multimedia report are represented (DICOM binary, DICOM XML, DICOM JSON), or the messaging protocol by which the images were transferred to the Display. If the Display receives the reports by a profiled mechanism such as DICOM C-STORE, or DICOMweb WADO-RS, the messaging protocol is specified in that corresponding transaction. If images are accessed by being grouped with another actor such as an Image Display, there is no messaging protocol involved.

#### 2:3.Y5.4.1.3 Expected Actions (i.e. Display Requirements)

The behaviors in this section are specified as baseline capabilities. Displays may have additional or alternative capabilities that may be invokved or configured.

**By default, point to BIR ??? flag any issue**

The Display shall support the following interactive behavior when showing the images:
- Window level the images
- Present markup and annotations received along with the images
- Toggle the markup and annotations

The Requester may provide basic viewing tools for the user to interactive with the images.

If the Requester supports the Series/Study Navigation Option, the Requester shall support the following additional interactive behavior:
- Scrolling through the images in the series

### 2:3.Y5.5 Security Considerations

See [IMR Security Considerations](volume-1.html#security-considerations)

#### 2:3.Y2.5.1 Security Audit Considerations

The Radiology Audit Trail Option in the ITI Audit Trail and Node Authentication Profile (ITI TF-1:9) defines audit requirements for IHE Radiology transactions. See RAD TF-3: 5.1.

#### 2:3.Y2.5.2 Display Specific Security Considerations

Since this transaction involves the display of PHI, it may be reasonable for Report Readers to implement typical access controls for patient records, such as logins for users and role-based access policies. Since this transaction involves parsing datasets generated by other systems, it may be reasonable for Report Readers to implement basic digital hygiene, such as sanitizing datasets to avoid malicious executable scripts that might be executed by a browser-based viewer.
