### 2:4.141.1 Scope

This transaction is used to store diagnostic reports that contain hyperlinked references to media such as images or measurements.

### 2:4.141.2 Actors Roles

The roles in this transaction are defined in the following table and may be played by the actors shown here:

**Table 2:4.141.2-1: Actor Roles**

| Role      | Description                                   | Actor(s)          |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| Sender    | Send Reports | Report Creator    |
| Receiver  | Receives and handles reports | Report Repository <br> Report Reader <br> Rendered Report Reader |
{: .grid}

Transaction text specifies behavior for each role. The behavior of specific actors may also be specified when it goes beyond that of the general role.

### 2:4.141.3 Referenced Standards

**FHIR-R4**: [HL7 FHIR Release 4.0](http://www.hl7.org/FHIR/R4)

**DICOM WADO-RS**: [DICOM Studies Service Retrieve Transaction](https://dicom.nema.org/medical/dicom/current/output/html/part18.html#sect_10)

**HTML 5**: [HTML Living Standard](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/)

**HTML Custom Element**: [HTML Custom Element](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#custom-element-definition)

**PDF/A**: [ISO 19005-1:2005](https://www.iso.org/standard/38920.html)

### 2:4.141.4 Messages

<div>
{%include RAD-141-seq.svg%}
</div>

<div style="clear: left"/>

**Figure 2:4.141.4-1: Interaction Diagram**

#### 2:4.141.4.1 Store Multimedia Report Bundle Request Message
The Sender sends a multimedia report bundle to the Receiver.  The Sender shall support sending such messages to more than one Receiver.

The Receiver shall support handling such messages from more than one Sender. 

##### 2:4.141.4.1.1 Trigger Events

The Sender determines that a multimedia report is ready to be sent. e.g., a radiologist completed a dictation on a study and signed off the report. This trigger is associated with an intention that the Receiver stores the multimedia report contents and makes it available for subsequent query and retrieve requests.

##### 2:4.141.4.1.2 Message Semantics

This message is an HTTP POST request. The Sender is the User Agent. The Receiver is the Origin Server.

The Sender shall initiate a FHIR “transaction” using a “create” action by sending an HTTP POST request method composed of an IMR Bundle Resource containing the following:
- one DiagnosticReport Resource
- zero or more ServiceRequest Resources
- zero or more ImagingStudy Resources
- zero of more ImagingSelection Resources

The media type of the HTTP body shall be either `application/fhir+json` or `application/fhir+xml`.

See [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#transaction](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#transaction) for complete requirements of a FHIR transaction. See [http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle-transaction.html](http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle-transaction.html) for an example of a transaction bundle.

The Sender shall send the message to the base URL as defined in FHIR. See http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html for the definition of “HTTP” access methods and “base”.

The following subsections contain additional constraints on the contents of the IMR Bundle.

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.1 IMR Bundle Resource 

For complete information on constructing a FHIR Bundle Resource, see [http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html](http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html)

The FHIR `Bundle.meta.profile` shall have the following value: `http://profiles.ihe.net/RAD/IMR/StructureDefinition/imr-bundle`

The [IMR Bundle](StructureDefinition-imr-store-multimedia-report-bundle.html): 
  - shall be a [Transaction Bundle](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#transaction)
  - shall create one [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html)
  - may create one or more [IMR ServiceRequest](StructureDefinition-imr-servicerequest.html)
  - may create one or more [IMR ImagingStudy](StructureDefinition-imr-imagingstudy.html)
  - may create one or more [ImagingSelection](https://build.fhir.org/imagingselection.html)

> Note: FHIR ImagingSelection resource is in development and not defined in FHIR R4.

The Sender may set `meta.profile` of each resource to be the corresponding IMR Profile. This enables a Receiver to validate the received resource against the IMR resource profile specification.

> Note: A Sender may choose not to set meta.profile to a specific profile, or may set it to multiple profiles.

The Sender shall create corresponding properly identifiable resources unless the proper record keys or absolute identification information is not available. Identifiable resources are preferred because each resource in the bundle is valuable as a standalone resource outside the context of the IMR DiagnosticReport Resource (e.g., independently searchable, and the same resource can be referenced multiple times).

When resources are `contained`, they shall be contained using the FHIR contained method (see [http://hl7.org/fhir/references.html#contained](http://hl7.org/fhir/references.html#contained) ).

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.2 IMR DiagnosticReport Resource 

The Sender shall construct the IMR DiagnosticReport Resource according to the IMR DiagnosticReport [StructureDefinition](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html)

[Section 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.1](#2414141221-mapping-of-attributes-in-a-diagnostic-report) contains mapping requirements.

[Section 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.2](#2414141222-rendered-report-in-imr-diagnosticreport-resource) contains requirements for including a rendered report in an IMR DiagnosticReport Resource.

A complete example of an IMR DiagnosticReport Resource is available in [IMR DiagnosticReport Example](DiagnosticReport-ex-DiagnosticReport.json.html).

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.1 Mapping of Attributes in a Diagnostic Report

There is a common set of attributes included in radiology diagnostic reports. Table 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.1-1 specifies how the Sender shall map these attributes to the IMR DiagnosticReport Resource and other referenced resources.  Refer to the StructureDefinition for these resources on the [Artifacts](artifacts.html) page.

**Table 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.1-1: Mapping of Attributes in DiagnosticReport**

| Report Attribute | FHIR Resource Mapping | Additional Constraint | Note |
|------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|------|
| Organization     | `DiagnosticReport.performer` | See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | The organization which is responsible for the diagnostic report. <br><br> See Note 1 |
| Results Interpreter | `DiagnosticReport.resultsInterpreter` | Can be either Practitioner or PractitionerRole <br><br> See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | The primary result interpreter(s) <br><br> See Note 1 |
| Patient Name     | `DiagnosticReport.subject.name -> Patient.name` | See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | See Note 1 |
| Patient ID       | `DiagnosticReport.subject.identifier -> Patient.identifier` | See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | See Note 1 |
| Accession Number | `DiagnosticReport.basedOn.identifier -> IMRServiceRequest.identifier` | See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) and [IMR ServiceRequest](StructureDefinition-imr-servicerequest.html) for details | Identified by the identifier.type |
| Study Date       | `DiagnosticReport.imagingStudy.started -> IMRImagingStudy.started` | See [IMR ImagingStudy](StructureDefinition-imr-imagingstudy.html) for details | |
| Study Type       | `DiagnosticReport.imagingStudy.procedureCode -> IMRImagingStudy.procedureCode` | See [IMR ImagingStudy](StructureDefinition-imr-imagingstudy.html) for details | |
| Report Status    | `DiagnosticReport.status` | partial, preliminary, final, amended, corrected, appended, cancelled <br><br> See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | A subset from what is defined in FHIR |
| Report Sign-off Time | `DiagnosticReport.issued` | See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | |
| Examination      | `DiagnosticReport.code` | See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | Code for the type of diagnostic report, may be the same as the study procedure code |
| Indication       | `DiagnosticReport.extension[indication]` | See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | Each value can be either a string or a CodeableConcept |
| Technique        | `DiagnosticReport.result.method -> IMRObservation.method` | Technique details is set in the same observation  resource that captures the finding. i.e., IMRObservation.code = LOINC#59776-5 "Procedure Findings" <br><br> See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) and [IMR Observation](StructureDefinition-imr-observation.html) for details | |
| Associated Study | `DiagnosticReport.extension[associatedStudy]` | Can be either an ImagingStudy or DiagnosticReport <br><br> See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) for details | |
| Report Section   | `DiagnosticReport.result.valueString -> IMRObservation.valueString` | Identified by IMRObservation.code. See [IMR DiagnosticReport](StructureDefinition-imr-diagnosticreport.html) and [IMR Observation](StructureDefinition-imr-observation.html) for details | The code is used to identify what *section* the observation belongs to. For example, LOINC code __59776-5__ represents a procedure finding and LOINC code __19005-8__ represents a narrative impression. <br><br> Highly recommended to encode a single finding or impression per IMR Observation, but permitted to encode all findings as a single string and all impressions as a single string to bridge existing applications. <br><br> See Note 2 |
{: .grid}

> Note 1: This transaction does not define a FHIR resource profile for the resource. An implementation may use other FHIR resource profiles applicable for their deployment.

> Note 2: In common cases, there is no direct association between findings and impressions except that they are associated with the same DiagnosticReport Resource. 

In addition to the common set above, there are also a number of useful optional attributes that the Sender may included.

**Table 2:4.141.4.1.2.1-2: Useful Optional Attributes in Radiology Diagnostic Report**

| Report Attribute | FHIR Resource Mapping | Additional Constraint | Note |
|------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|------|
| Referring Physician | `DiagnosticReport.imagingStudy -> IMRImagingStudy.referrer` | |
| Reason For Study | `DiagnosticReport.imagingStudy -> IMRImagingStudy.reasonCode` | |
| Study Description | `DiagnosticReport.imagingStudy -> IMRImagingStudy.description` | |
| Body Part | `DiagnosticReport.result -> IMRObservation.bodySite` | Note 1 |
| Relationship between findings and impressions | DiagnosticReport.result -> IMRObservation.hasMember | | Specify related observations, e.g., linking impression to finding, or finding to another finding |
{: .grid}

> Note 1: See [HIMSS-SIIM Whitepaper: The Importance of Body Part Labeling to Enable Enterprise Imaging](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10278-020-00415-0) for the importance of body part labelling.

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.2 Rendered Report in IMR DiagnosticReport Resource

The Sender shall include in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm at least one rendered report in HTML format. DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.contentType shall have the value "text/html".   

The Sender may include other renderings of the same report (e.g., PDF) in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.

For all rendered reports, the Sender shall set the DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.contentType with a value corresponding to the rendered report format.

The Sender shall encode the rendered report that is referenced by DiagnosticReport.presentedForm in one of the following ways:
- as a base64Binary in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.data
- as a base64Binary in a [Binary Resource](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/binary.html), and this Binary Resource is referenced in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.url.
  - The Binary Resource shall be in the Bundle. See FHIR Resolving references in Bundles at [http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html#references](http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html#references). 
- host the rendered report somewhere and provide the url in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.url

The Sender shall populate accurate values for hash and size for the rendered report content in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.hash and DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.size: 
* Where the presentedForm is a Binary Resource instance, the .hash and .size shall represent the raw artifact prior to base64 encoding in the Binary.data element.  
* Where the presentedForm is hosted elsewhere, not as a Binary Resource, the .hash and the .size shall represent the rendered report content that would be retrieved using the mime-type specified in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.contentType. 

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.2.1 Image References in Rendered Report

This section contains requirements for the Sender that needs to include image references in the rendered report in HTML format in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm 

For inline image references in Observation.valueString, the Sender shall substitute each `<imr-ref>`...`</imr-ref>` markup with an HTML anchor element. The href attribute shall be set to the concatenation of the ImagingStudy.endpoint.address with the valueString from the matching Observation.component.id entry. The resulting URL shall be a valid URL according to the contentType.

The Sender shall construct the resulting URLs such that the contents returned to the Receiver upon invocation are ready to be presented, rather than contents that would require the Receiver to download content or to have and additional tools in order to present the content. For example, using a WADO-RS URL with a rendered image meets this requirement, whereas a plain WADO-RS URL to retrieve a DICOM object does not. In other words, the Sender shall not presume that the Receiver can download and render the linked content.

> In other words, the Sender shall not presume that the Receiver can download and render the linked content.

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.2.2.2 Rendered Report in PDF Format

A Sender that supports the **PDF Report Option**, if configured, shall also include a semantically equivalent diagnostic report in PDF format in the DiagnosticReport.presentedForm attribute. The presentedForm.contentType shall have the value "application/pdf". The Sender shall include in the PDF report all text and linked contents as in the HTML report. The Sender may preserve the linked contents as hyperlinks, or substitute the linked contents with the actual rendered contents and embedded them in the PDF file.

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.3 IMR Observation Resource

The Sender shall encode all clinical finding(s), impressions(s) or other observation(s) using IMR Observation Resources.

> See [Section 1:52.4.1.1](volume-1.html#152411-structure-in-radiology-reporting) "Structure in Radiology Reporting" for discussions regarding different *structures* applicable to radiology reporting.

The Sender shall set the `code` attribute according to the [IMR Observation](StructureDefinition-imr-observation.html) resource profile indicating whether the IMR Observation Resource represents finding(s), impression(s), or some other type of observations.

For clinical findings, the Sender shall either: 
- encode each finding as a separate [IMR Observation](StructureDefinition-imr-observation.html) Resource, **or** 
- include all findings in a single IMR Observation Resource as narrative content in Observation.valueString. See [IMR Observation Examples](StructureDefinition-imr-observation-examples.html) for an example that encodes multiple findings in paragraph form in a single IMR Observation Resource.

For clinical impressions, the Sender shall either:
- include each impression as a separate [IMR Observation](StructureDefinition-imr-observation.html) Resource, **or**
- include all impressions a single IMR Observation Resource as a narrative content in Observation.valueString. See [IMR Observation Examples](StructureDefinition-imr-observation-examples.html) for examples that encode different impressions as different IMR Observation Resources.

The Sender shall encode narrative content in findings or impressions using Observation.valueString.

The Sender may encode codeable content in findings or impressions using the appropriate data type available in Observation.value[x].

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.3.1 Imaging Context in an IMR DiagnosticReport Resource

For narrative content, the Sender may directly embed one or more image references inline within the text.

The Sender shall specify each inline image reference using the `<imr-ref>` HTML custom element and the corresponding `</imr-ref>` end element. This `<imr-ref>` element shall have the attributes as defined in Table 2:4.141.4.1.2.3.1-1.

**Table 2:4.141.4.1.2.3.1-1: Attributes for the `<imr-ref>` element**

| Attribute | Type | Optionality | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|-------------|
| `data-type`    | String | R | Type of multimedia content.<br><br>Valid values shall be 'ImagingSelection' |
| `data-imaging-selection` | String | RC | Reference to an `ImagingSelection` resource.<br><br>Required if `type` has value 'ImagingSelection' |
{: .grid}

This `<imr-ref>` represents a *placeholder* for the image reference details. The display text is the text enclosed by the `<imr-ref>` element.

Example 1: The inline image references include non-imaging references
```
The imaged portion of a thyroid gland is unremarkable. Prominent or mildly enlarged mediastinal and bilateral hilar lymph nodes measure up to <imr-ref data-type="ImagingSelection" data-imaging-selection="ImagingSelection/1234">1.2 x 0.8 cm in the right paratracheal station</imr-ref>, <imr-ref data-type="ImagingSelection" data-imaging-selection="ImagingSelection/1567>2.3 x 1.4 cm in the subcarinal station</imr-ref>, and <imr-ref date-type="ImagingSelection" data-imaging-selection="Imagingselection/1890>1.4 x 0.9 cm in the right hilar stations</imr-ref>. No significant axillary lymphadenopathy is detected.
```

In Example 1, there are multiple references embedded within the text. Each reference uses an imr-ref of type ImagingSelection. Each ImagingSelection resource may reference imaging objects as well as DICOM SR, segmentation, or include ROI directly. See [ImagingSelection examples](https://build.fhir.org/imagingselection-examples.html) for various use cases of the ImagingSelection resource.

Example 2: The image references are specified adjacent to the corresponding measurements
```
The imaged portion of a thyroid gland is unremarkable. Prominent or mildly enlarged mediastinal and bilateral hilar lymph nodes measure up to 1.2 x 0.8 cm in the right paratracheal station <imr-ref data-type="ImagingSelection" data-imaging-selection="ImagingSelection/1234">image</imr-ref>. ...
```

In Example 2, the display text for the hyperlink is the simple text **image** adjacent to the corresponding measurement details.

> Note: In FHIR R4, the design of DiagnosticReport does not define how the different attributes should be presented in what order, except for the presentedForm. HL7 is working on integrating DiagnosticReport with Composition, which enables an explicit control of sections. It is the intention of IMR that when Composition is integrated with DiagnosticReport, IMR will be updated to support it.

###### 2:4.141.4.1.2.4 Patient, Organization, Practitioner, PractitionerRole Resources

The Patient, Organization, Practitioner or PractitionerRole Resources are required resources. However, IMR does not specify any FHIR resource profiles on these resources. These resources are not radiology or imaging specific. Real world deployment may specify constraints on these resources.

##### 2:4.141.4.1.3 Expected Actions

The Receiver shall accept both media types `application/fhir+json` and `application/fhir+xml`.

On receipt of the request message, the Receiver shall validate the resources and respond with one of the HTTP codes defined in the response [Message Semantics](#24141412-message-semantics).

The Receiver shall process the transaction bundle atomically as specified in [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#transaction](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#transaction). 

> Note: Local policy might reject bundles containing resources such as Patient, Organization, Practitioner, etc. referenced that are unknown to the Receiver. Local policy may allow a Receiver to support "conditional create" semantics (currently in trial use as defined in [FHIR RESTful API](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/http.html#create). Therefore, the actual behavior is at the discretion of the Receiver Actor policy.

The Receiver shall retrieve any Resources referenced by absolute URLs in the FHIR Bundle Resource.

The Receiver shall validate the bundle first against the FHIR specification. Guidance on what FHIR considers a valid Resource can be found at [http://hl7.org/fhir/validation.html](http://hl7.org/fhir/validation.html). 

Once the bundle is validated, the Receiver shall store the report and all associated resources.

A Receiver is permitted to coerce non-compliant values in the FHIR Bundle Resource.

The Receiver shall be able to retrieve the hosted rendered report(s) in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.url and embed them in the corresponding DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.data.

The Receiver may extract the embedded rendered report(s) in DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.data, store them and substitute the corresponding DiagnosticReport.presentedForm with a URL (i.e., DiagnosticReport.presentedForm.url) instead.

The Receiver shall maintain the integrity of the report if the report access method is modified (i.e., from embedded to hosted, or vice versa).

The Receiver shall not send a success response until the multimedia report is completely processed and persisted as appropriate to the Receiver configuration.

If the Receiver encounters any errors or if any validation fails, the Receiver shall return an appropriate error.

#### 2:4.141.4.2 Store Multimedia Report Bundle Response Message

The Receiver sends a response message describing the message outcome to the Sender.

##### 2:4.141.4.2.1 Trigger Events

The Receiver receives a Store Multimedia Report Bundle Request message.

##### 2:4.141.4.2.2 Message Semantics

This message is an HTTP POST response. The Sender is the User Agent. The Receiver is the Origin Server.

The Receiver returns an HTTP Status code appropriate to the processing outcome, conforming to the transaction specification requirements in [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#trules](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#trules) to the Sender. This enables the Sender to know the outcome of processing the FHIR transaction, and the identities assigned to the resources by the Receiver.

The Receiver shall construct a Bundle, with `type` set to `transaction-response`, that contains one entry for each entry in the request, in the same order as received, with the `Bundle.entry.response.outcome` indicating the results of processing the entry warnings such as PartialFolderContentNotProcessed. The Receiver shall comply with FHIR [http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html#transaction-response](http://hl7.org/fhir/bundle.html#transaction-response) and [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#transaction-response](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#transaction-response).

To indicate success, the Receiver shall return an HTTP status `200`. The Receiver shall include in the HTTP response header the `location` element, and the `etag` element if the Receiver supports FHIR resource versioning.

The `Bundle.entry.response.status` shall be `201` to indicate the Resource has been created. 

An informative StructureDefinition is found at [IMR Store Multimedia Report Bundle Message](StructureDefinition-imr-store-multimedia-report-bundle.html).

##### 2:4.141.4.2.3 Expected Actions

If the Receiver returns an HTTP redirect response (HTTP status codes 301, 302, 303, or 307), the Sender shall follow the redirect, but may stop processing if it detects a loop. See [RFC7231 Section 6.4 Redirection 352](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6.4).

The Sender processes the results according to application-defined rules.	

#### 2:4.141.4.3 CapabilityStatement Resource

Receiver shall provide a CapabilityStatement Resource as described in [ITI TF-2: Appendix Z.3](https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/TF/Volume2/ch-Z.html#z.3-capabilitystatement-resource) indicating which resources associated with an IMR report have been implemented. 

### 2:4.141.5 Security Considerations

The Sender may use external URLs in presentedForm.url. In this case, the Receiver should consider validating the URL to ensure that it is a valid URL referencing a known legitimate host to avoid phishing attack.

#### 2:4.141.5.1 Security Audit Considerations

This transaction is associated with a 'Patient-record-event' ATNA Trigger Event on both the Sender and the Receiver. See [ITI TF-2: 3.20.4.1.1.1](https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/TF/Volume2/ITI-20.html#3.20.4.1.1.1).
